Welcome everyone.
Last portion we talked about transfer learning in this segment.
We're going to move away from transfer learning but borrowing the same concept and moved into feature
extraction.
What exactly is feature extraction.
One of the beauty of Deep Neural learning neural network is that it's able to actually extract or pull
out the salient key features of images as we've learned so far and the question is that can you actually
use the neural network architecture that we've been using so far to extract features much like feature
engineering that you do in the machine learning in classical machine learning and and solve it that
way.
So used the neural network that you build extract the key features and then apply very simple
shallow machine learning to classify the pictures the end again turns out to be yes you can do that.
The technique is called feature extraction so I'm going to show you how to do that right now.
We are again working with the cats and dogs data center.
Since you're comfortable with it.
So let's continue to work through with this.
And I'm going to show you that as a demo.
So the first few blocks of codes are exactly the same that aren't actually any changes with those.
So we're gonna skip through them.
We're still going to make use of e.g. the differences.
There's no major difference as to removing the top meaning we don't have the flattened layer nor the
funny fully connected layer.
Right.
The variation comes in here.
Notice the data augmentation that we are doing.
All right.
So that's the first part and we are actually providing in terms of the binary request that we are doing.
So other things that we are doing here is this we are actually setting the sample size providing the
features and basically loops through them all one by one.
So let me walk through these in terms of what we're looking to do from the train that again that we
did earlier this is this which is this one here.
And that train that again we save it as a training sample size which is thousand.
Second thing is the feature we store a whole bunch of 0.
OK.
So we have train sample size.
So essentially we're creating a tensor here.
So four thousand is the is the first number comma four by four.
All right.
And then followed by five 1 2.
We're creating a shape that is that is that has that shape right.
So followed by the training labels which we will save.
So these are creating a whole bunch of zeros.
OK.
So these are using num pi to create zeros for both the feature that we're going to feed as well as to
label the next thing is that we look through the data which are the images and extract both the features
as well as these labels and we run them one by one.
OK.
So we extract the features and store it into the features to extract that features here is based on.
We find that
extract that features is this one here.
Sorry.
OK.
This extract that features is based on the so-called images that we have the data that's generated and
we feed it through our neural net which is the be G.G. without the head removing the that flatten layer
as well as the full fully connected layer.
And just basically taking the output of the model which is core again we save it and extract it features
and then we run it through and save it into our train features and the labels of these features are
stored in train level labels.
So the basic idea is is that we are looping through all of the data as all of the images.
In other words the images are being fed in.
We perform data on plantation but we already know the label of these so we store it in the in a variable
called Train labels and the features which are the images we feed it through the neural network CNN
that was done before which is the BCG and then the output of the image plus to CNN is stored in train
features and then we increase AI by one.
And basically when we actually once we reached a data size or batch size and told the total size is
greater than the training sample size we stopped OK.
This was this break.
As for right the next thing is that we need to scale our data in two divided by 2 5 5 and then again
we need to have the data flow from the directory as well for all validation data.
OK.
So this is the path whereby again we need to do the same without validation data set.
So with the validation again we need to know how many samples do we have.
Again we create the features the shape is the number of samples that we have.
And then four by four and then five one two.
And we create the number of zeroes based on the label.
How many sample size that we have.
Again with performed the extracting features store the features store the labels and continue until
we've finished all of our samples.
All right.
So the next part here is turning our features.
We all need to reshape it instead of four comma four.
Come on.
Five.
One two.
We are reshaping it to become for training sample size which is four thousand four times four times
five.
One two.
Essentially what what are we doing here.
We're hasty flattening it.
Okay we're reshaping it to become a 2D except that it is 2D but that defers first.
So core value is actually the sample its sample itself.
Okay.
So we do that for the training we do there for the validation as well.
Right.
Come next is to define the so-called classification part now.
So we import the model's optimizes the dens and the drop out and we create our sequential model we pheasant
for Adelaide call dens 5 1 2 which is the input dimension and then we actually apply a densely connected
layer the dense the input layer is basically you notice that is four by four by 5 1 2 is basically is
extra flat and layer and we are applying a density connected layer but with dropout 50 percent.
And finally apply a sigmoid for classification which is a cats and dogs that we're looking at.
And the next one is to familiar compiling our data followed by training our data for 50 epochs and this
is the outcome that we get.
Right.
So if you look at the model in terms of the validation accuracy hover around 87 percent.
So it's range bound from 85 to 90.
And these so-called loss X start to pick up from 20 onwards and in fact it didn't improve from up to
10 epochs.
So if you look at this carefully around 10 a box it were already over fitting our data and we should
probably stop turning our model at that point.
There's no need to continue on for another epochs.
But again you can see that this is a really attractive way of using neural network the ingenious way
of using a neural network.
Basically what you've done is actually you have used a CNN to extract the key features and then apply
a slightly different layout Des layout with a dropout with a dense layout for the problem that you are
trying to actually solve here.
Okay.
So I guess the one question that you might have when you look through this V G G network and then later
on you see that I have provided certain shaves such as this one here for comma for comma 5 1 2.
I have a sneaking suspicion that you probably don't know what this is all you'll be asking that question
right throughout.
So let me put you out of your misery and come back to this model.
This is the output of the base model of the V G.G. and our input.
Remember our image size.
We reshape the 128 by 128.
Take a look at the output the output through this V g g sixteen is a height of four with a full and
depth of five 1 2.
And therein lies where the four by four by five.
One two comes from.
So in this situation at the max pulling the block five pull makes pulling to D you have a hydro full
with a full and depth of 5 1 2.
Basically it's kind of like a cube but not quite because it's 5 1 2.
This is not exactly a cube and
what we usually have is that we reshape it and flatten it and essentially flatten it is basically four
times four times five one two.
And that's technically what we did here when we actually reshape it here to four times four times five.
One two.
Of course you don't have to apply these sequential models which is plugging the neural network at the
end of it.
It is quite common and quite normal for people to actually apply logistic regression which is of course
a sigmoid function rather than applying the all of these other techniques that we discussed in this
one way to do it.
You can of course logistic regression as one way.
There's a few on there that you can actually apply to it but I'll let that lead that to you as an exercise
for you to experiment with.
I hope you found this useful and thank you once again for watching.